# Puzzle object

Puzzle object is declared as `class pzpr.Puzzle`.
You can generate it by `new pzpr.Puzzle()` constructor.

## Constructor

* `pzpr.Puzzle([canvas][,option])` Create puzzle object.
    * `canvas:Node` The canvas of the puzzle.
    * `option:object` See below.
        * `option.type:string`     Select puzzle object type.
            * `option.type==='editor'` **Default value.** The puzzle can be inputted question data and answer data.
            * `option.type==='player'` The puzzle can be only taken answer data.
            * `option.type==='viewer'` The puzzle can display the puzzle but reject any input.
        * `option.config:object`   Input initial config data as a object. See pzpr.Puzzle.Config section.
        * `option.mode`            Select initial mode: `editmode` or `playmode`. Value is the same as `puzzle.setMain()`.
        * `option.graphic:string`  Specify graphic type. It can be `'svg'` or `'canvas'`.
        * `option.width:number` and `option.height:number` Specify the size of the canvas.
        * `option.cellsize:number` Specify the size of the canvas by the cellsize of the board.

If neither width, height nor cellsize is given, the size of given canvas element is used for the size of puzzle.

## Methods for open/save puzzles

* `puzzle.open(data[, variety][, callback])` Open the specific URL/file data.
    * This API can be also used for opening new empty board as `'(pid)/cols/rows'` format, like `puzzle.open('nurikabe/5/5')`.
    * Return value: `puzzle object itself`
    * `data:string` Data to be opened.
    * `data:URLData or FileData` Data can be a `URLData` or `FileData` object generated by `pzpr.parser.parse` function.
    * `pid:string` Predefined puzzle veriety name.
    * `callback:function` It will be called after opening operation finishs and `ready` event fired.
* `puzzle.getURL([urltype])` Return URL of the board.
    * Return value: Generated URL string.
    * `urltype:URLType` Specify URL type.
* `puzzle.getFileData([filetype[, option]])` Return File Data of the board.
    * Return value: Generated File data.
    * `filetype:FileType` Specify URL type.
    * `option.history:boolean` If filetype is FILE_PZPR and it is true, operation history will be outputted.
* `puzzle.clone([option])` Return cloned puzzle object from the puzzle.
    * Return value: cloned puzzle object.
    * `option.type:string` It means the same as option.type in constructor. If not specified, the type of the puzzle will be used.
    * `option.width:number` and `option.height:number` Set the size of the canvas of cloned puzzle object. If not specified, the size of current canvas will be used.

## Methods for events

* `puzzle.on(eventtype, listener)` Register event listener to pzpr object.
* `puzzle.once(eventtype, listener)` Register once event listener to pzpr object.
    * `eventtype:string` Event type. See event section below.
    * `listener:function` Function to be called.

## Methods for configuration

* `puzzle.setMode(type)` It changes the puzzle into playmode or editmode when the puzzle type is 'editor'.
    * `type` If `puzzle.MODE_PLAYER` or `'play'`, it will change the puzzle mode to `playmode`. <br> If `puzzle.MODE_EDITOR` or `'edit'`, puzzle mode will change into `editmode`.
* `puzzle.getConfig(configname)` Get the value of the config data. See below to get the list of the config.
    * Return value: the value of the specified config.
    * `configname:string` the id name of the config. See `pzpr.Puzzle.Config class` secrion.
* `puzzle.setConfig(configname, value)` Set the config data to the given value.
    * `configname:string` the id name of the config. See `pzpr.Puzzle.Config class` secrion.
    * `value` value to be set. Type is either `string`, `number` or `boolean`.
* `puzzle.resetConfig(configname)` Reset the config data to the initial value. See below to get the list of the config.
    * `configname:string` the id name of the config. See `pzpr.Puzzle.Config class` secrion.
* `puzzle.getCurrentConfig()` Return the list of the config values for current puzzle variety.
    * Return value: `object`.
* `puzzle.saveConfig()` Return current changed config list from default value as object.
    * Return value: `object`.
* `puzzle.restoreConfig(object)` Set config list by given object. 
    * `object:object` the list of the config to be restored. Usually this is the object which `puzzle.saveConfig()` returned.

## Methods for canvas

* `puzzle.setCanvas(canvas[, graphictype])` Set the canvas element after the puzzle object created.
    * `canvas:Node` The canvas of the puzzle.
    * `graphictype:string` Graphic type used for the canvas. `'svg'` or `'canvas'`.
* `puzzle.setCanvasSize(width, height)` Set the canvas of the canvas.
* `puzzle.setCanvasSizeByCellSize(cellsize)` Set the canvas of the canvas by the cellsize of the board.
* `puzzle.redraw([flush])` Redraw the whole canvas.
    * `flush:boolean` If `true`, it will destroy all cached data and redraw, otherwise cached data will be kept.
* `puzzle.irowake()` Regenerate the color of the line if config.irowake (set individual color to line) is set.
* `puzzle.toDataURL([graphictype[, quality[, option]]])` Return the canvas graphic data as Data URL.
    * Return value: Generated Data URL.
    * `quality:number` Compression quality for `jpeg` or `webp`.
    * If option is `number`, it will treat as `option.cellsize` for backward compatibility.
    * `option.cellsize:number` Identify output size by the size of cells. 
    * `option.bgcolor:string` Specify background color. If this is empty, background will become transparent.
* `puzzle.toBuffer([graphictype[, quality[, option]]])` Return raw image data of the canvas.
    * Return value: Generated data as a string.s
* `puzzle.toBlob(callback[, graphictype[, quality[, option]]])` Generate the canvas graphic data as Blob.
    * Return value: No return value. Please use `callback(blob)`.

## Methods for the board model

* `puzzle.check([activemode])` Check if the board is modified or not.
    * Return value: `CheckInfo` which contains if the check succeed or not and failure information.
        * `info.complete` `true` if the answer is correct.
        * `info.text` contains error description unless `activemode===false`.
        * `info.gettext(['en' or 'ja'])` method gets error description in English or Japanese.
    * `activemode:boolean`
        * If `true`, checking answer routine will set error information and display what has error.
        * If `false`, it will only check errors, ignore `'multierr'` config and `info.text` remains empty.
        * Otherwise, it will only check errors but respect `'multierr'` config and set `info.text`.
* `puzzle.ansclear()` Clear answer data on the board but it preserves operation history data.
* `puzzle.subclear()` Clear auxiliary marks on the board.
* `puzzle.errclear()` Wipe out the error information given after check() is called.
* `puzzle.clear()` For `'editor'` type puzzle, clean all board data. As for `'player'` type puzzle, it clears answer data. In addition, it clears operation history data for both `'editor'` and `'player'`.

## Methods for operation history

* `puzzle.undo()` Undo an operation.
    * Return value: `true` if it is the first operation.
* `puzzle.redo()` Redo an operation.
    * Return value: `true` if it is the last operation.
* `puzzle.undoall()` Undo all recorded operations. No return value.
* `puzzle.redoall()` Redo all recorded operations. No return value.
* `puzzle.ismodified()` Check if the board is modified or not.
    * Return value: `true` when the puzzle is modified and the puzzle type is 'editor'.
* `puzzle.saved()` Let `puzzle.ismodified()` return `false`.

## Methods for general purpose

* `puzzle.getTime()` Return consumed time from the puzzle data is created or URL/filedata is opened.
    * Return value: consumed time in millisecond scale.

## Events

* `'ready'` Emitted after `puzzle.open` finished successfully.
    * Callback: `function(puzzle)`
* `'fail-open'` Emitted if `puzzle.open` failed.
    * Callback: `function(puzzle)`
* `'canvasReady'` Emitted after both canvas is initialized and puzzle become ready. It is fired after `'ready'` and `'resize'` events finished.
    * Callback: `function(puzzle)`
* `'resize'` Emitted if the size of the canvas is changed.
    * Callback: `function(puzzle)`
* `'adjust'` Emitted after rows and cols on the board is expanded, reduced or the board is flipped or turned.
    * Callback: `function(puzzle)`
* `'config'` Emitted after a config has changed.
    * Callback: `function(puzzle, configname, value)`
* `'key'` Emitted when keyboard event is called, before common routine is called.
    * Callback: `function(puzzle, keycode)`
* `'mouse'` Emitted when mouse/touch event is called, before common routine is called.
    * Callback: `function(puzzle)`
* `'history'` Emitted after operation history is added or undo/redo is executed.
    * Callback: `function(puzzle)`

## Properties

* `puzzle.pzpr` Reference to pzpr object.
* `puzzle.ready:boolean` `true` after the URL/FileData is opened and board, painter and other related objects are set.
* `puzzle.pid:string` specifies the variety/genre of the current puzzle.
* `puzzle.info:object` Reference to VarietyInfo of the current puzzle.
* `puzzle.canvas:Node` The node currently the puzzle has been using.
* `puzzle.editmode:boolean` `true` if the puzzle is inputting question data at the moment.
* `puzzle.playmode:boolean` `true` if the puzzle is inputting answer data at the moment.

For `editmode` or `playmode` property, one is `true` and the other is `false`.

## Puzzle object sub-objects

Puzzle object has `puzzle.board`, `puzzle.metadata`, `puzzle.moouse`, `puzzle.key` and so on.
For detail, see [sub-objects of puzzle object document](PuzzleSubObject.md)

## class pzpr.Puzzle.Config

There are some puzzle configurations.
For details, see [list of puzzle config document](Config.md).

|Name|Type|Default value|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`irowake`|`boolean`|`false`|Set individual color to lines|
|`autocmp`|`boolean`|`false`|Show complete blocks/numbers apart from incompleted one automatically.|
|`autoerr`|`boolean`|`false`|Show incomplete/wrong numbers automatically.|
|`multierr`|`boolean`|`false`|Check prural errors in `puzzle.check()` API.|
